---
title: Day 4
date: 2021-11-05
categories: [blog]
layout: custom
---
# Game Off 2021 - Day 4
{{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}


## Battle mechanics

Bugs could be part of normal battle mechanics, or could be one-off gimmicks.
It's more interesting if they can be worked into normal gameplay, so that over a full game you'd have multiple battle decisions.
For this game jam it's probably fine if they're gimmicks; after being used in one battle, the antagonist makes the enemies immune (patched oops).
- Alternatively, enemies start using the same bugs? 

Bugs:
- Integer overflow: over-heal = death
- Endianness: ability to cause a bytes-swap in health values (your own first, enemies later?)
  - Probably needs some kind of "prediction" graphic so it doesn't feel random to non-programmers
- Pointers: ability to redirect targets (selecting target affects unintended character)
- Unsanitized input: get a targetable menu option that can "drop enemy table"
  - Being able to target variable things (like menu options, UI elements, backgrounds) has a bunch of possibilities

If I need more I can implement more later. I doubt we'll even get to implementing these four.

Composable function and essentially programming-lite for battle mechanics seems interesting, but needs a lot more careful design.

## Progress

- Cloudflare analytics for GitHub Pages
- Made an empty Unity project. It's almost time to get off my butt and do things...
- Figure out a few "bugs" to implement for battles

## TODO

- Figure out how to make Unity play nice with Git
- Keep playing with Jekyll, fixing things like links
- Continue nailing down specific battle mechanics and overworld power-ups
  - Bug-themed things
- Main character designs and 2d "sprite" (probably cutout animation) for both overworld and battle
  - Can visualize the rest of the world around the main character for consistency
- Start programming
  - Menus
  - Options
  - Overworld
  - Battle

## Time Spent

7 + 1hr