---
title: Day 27
date: 2021-11-28
categories: [blog]
layout: custom
---
# Game Off 2021 - {{ page.title }}
{{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}

## Time and scope

Technically 2 full days left. Realistically I'm not working much more on this.

The question becomes, what is necessary to ship a "full" experience?
- Bug fixes
- Enemy textures
- Menu graphics
- An ending
  - A couple more glitchy screen effects, mostly gated by battle completion now
  - I would like a cute video. Doesn't seem likely if I don't have a cute main character asset
- The actual submission page
  - Some alluring thumbnail
  - All the rest of it (description, images, links)

I would've liked to include more "bugs" to explore, but I also would've liked to have a full 2d RPG. Time waits for no one.

I can lean even more into the asset store for some of this.

## Progress

- Simple menu texture instead of a blue background
- Fixed bugs
  - Hover text checks for collision with a exactly one UI element, but the old generated buttons were never culled
  - Changed turn order string to TextMeshPro which reset the tag used by hover logic
  - Retry button was deactivating the menu and not just disabling the button
- Continued implementing simple bug-level distortions

## TODO

- Assets
  - "Buggy" effects on all graphics/sound
    - Some form of full-screen distortion if possible. Else, random floating squares
- Finishing touches
  - More battles + actors
  - Main character asset (thinking a bug blob)
    - ~3f rolling movement
    - some jump-as-attack animation (12f necessary?)
    - 4f hurt anim, blob deform
  - Outro video
    - Worst case it's a blue screen -> fade to black
    - Best case it's the video of blob + blue screen
  - Cover art
- Determine system requirements
  - Whatever unity build allows
  - "Mouse required" message

## Time Spent

63.5 + 1.5hr