---
title: Day 10
date: 2021-11-11
categories: [blog]
layout: custom
---
# Game Off 2021 - {{ page.title }}
{{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}

## Study

Need to look at how others have implemented their data structures, but I finally settled on one that likely works for me.

Ultimately, we have `Actors`, `Actions`, and `Effects`. Each of these things have:
- A dataclass object of the same name with all the stats that are stored via JSON
- An interface, mostly used to tie together the objects so we can hold them in a list or other structure
- Specific classes implementing the interface and with the dataclass as a `stats` parameter
  - These classes will mainly vary based on special code-needed functionality.

The JSON dataclasses contain string references to other types, which Factory code converts into objects for easy of programming.
```c#
public static IBattleAction make(BattleAction action, Dictionary<string, IBattleEffect> allEffects)
{
    foreach (var effectString in action.effectStrings)
        action.effects.Add(allEffects[effectString]);

    switch (action.type)
    {
        case "ActionAttackBasic":
            Debug.Log("Make ActionAttackBasic");
            return new ActionAttackBasic(action);
        default:
            Debug.Log("Unexpected BattleAction type");
            return null;
    }
}
```

Hopefully, this mean most of the necessary interactions in the game can be generated from combinations of JSON files. Most of this could also probably be made generic, but I'm too lazy to do it right now.

From here, I need to implement the actual battle system, the top-level Unity integration, and the graphical display of all.

## Programming pains

Deserializing arbitrary infinitely nested JSON is proving much more frustrating than expected.

In Python this would be trivial - the JSON would deserialize to built-in lists and dicts that could be easily parsed.

Here (and using json.net) all of the strictly typed objects of various types are very annoying to try and convert properly.
I vastly underestimated the difficulty of this implementation due to how lax Python is in this regard.

## Progress

- Settled on a data structure setup + deserialization method. Finished all the basic data structures for battle actors.
- Implemented the simple boolean condition parser for effects
  - Made some simple examples for testing

## TODO

- Add a json deserialization fixer
  - Easier than figuring out a proper object structure or proper json converter
- Figure out unit tests in for Unity/C#
- Figure out how to make Unity play nice with Git
  - Specifically non-text assets like textures, blender models, sound effects, etc.
- Keep playing with Jekyll, fixing things like links
- Continue nailing down specific battle mechanics and overworld power-ups
  - Bug-themed things
- Main character designs and 2d "sprite" (probably cutout animation) for both overworld and battle
  - Can visualize the rest of the world around the main character for consistency
- Start programming
  - Options
  - Overworld
  - Battle
    - Start work on the top-level BattleManager systems

## Time Spent

18 + 4.25hr