---
title: Day 1
date: 2021-11-02
categories: [blog]
---
# Game Off 2021 - Day 1
{{ page.date | date: '%B %d, %Y' }}

## Game systems

Genres mean nothing, but we're looking to make a (J)RPG. At worst, something that looks like a Game Maker RPG but in Unity.
I would be happy with that; I loved all the Game Maker/RPG Maker games like Mad Father or The Witch's House.

### Menus

#### Main

Straight forward.
- Background art (potentially lightly animated)
- Start game
- Continue
  - Stretch goal. "Saving progress" isn't vital for short scope but is obviously an important thing to learn eventually
- Options
- Gallery
  - Includes credits, full art, music player, lore/game encyclopedia, and other notes from the creator
  - All stretch goal things - unless I use outside assets in which case the credits is required

#### Options

Many potential options, some required some not.

Sound control
- Master
- Music
- Battle sfx
- Menu sfx
- Voice
  - Not that I'm likely to have voiced content

Visual control
- Resolution
  - As many as is convenient
  - Including aspect rations
- Fullscreen/Windowed/Borderless Windowed
- Mouse lock to window
- Brightness
- Key rebinding
  - Presumably, controls will be mouse and/or keyboard. Try to keep minimal controls
- FPS Limit
  - Menu/in-game?
- Customizable (position/scaling) HUD
  - Stretch but would be really cool
- Quality graphics/filter settings
  - I don't even know how to do graphics, but have knobs here if possible
- Colorblind mode
  - Unfortunately likely a stretch goal. I assume it's something like pallette swaps
  - If anything requires colors, also should have symbols to mark
  - Coolest method is full color rebinding

### In-game systems

#### Overworld

The environment the character can move around in. Some possible styles:

- Top-down free movement, like Pokemon or all the Game Maker games
- Side view free movement, like Paper Mario
- Free camera 3d movement, like Tales of
- First-person grid based, like Etrian Odyssey
  - Convenient because first person = less to draw
  - Inconvenient because power-up glitches don't look as good? 

If possible I think I'd like to target the Paper Mario style, since it's (hopefully) not too hard and gives the opportunity for fun animations when using power-ups.
Perhaps I can also play with billboarding and allowing a freely-rotating camera too (which also opens up "camera bugs").

Likely to be instanced rooms the player travels between (potentially allowing "teleporting bugs") instead of some large open-world map.

If there's non-scripted battles, then I would prefer them to be free-roaming enemies that you could avoid collision with to avoid battles.
- Only having scripted battles is an interesting option. It allows tighter control over mechanics/story elements, but likely allows the battle design to be lazier (i.e. not generally fun, but interesting enough when it happens)

#### Battle

Many possible styles, both in terms of mechanics and graphics

Mechanically:
- Turn-based
- "Real-time"
  - Action bar like some Final Fantasies
  - Cooldown auto-battler like in mobage


Aesthetically:
- First-person, like Etrian Odyssey
- Third-person over the shoulder, like Pokemon
- Third-person from above, like newer Final Fantasy
- Side-to-side, like original Final Fantasy

If we're doing side view overworld, it makes sense to also do side view battles and re-use the overworld assets. Just like in Paper Mario, the characters walking around on the map also fight.

## Progress

- Started considering elements of the game
  - Identified the main menu and options menu necessities
  - Determined we're probably pursuing a side-view overworld/battle RPG in the vein of Paper Mario (in terms of aesthetics, mechanics undetermined)
- Poking the Jekyll usage further to fix my GitHub Pages build
  - Correctly use the Midnight theme and fix my local build by using the instructions at: https://github.com/pages-themes/midnight
  - Get the blog posts into actual posts 
  - Display the site resources in the index for quick access
    - There's Jekyll links that I need to get working instead of html tags
  - No it's not pretty yet

## TODO

- Figure out how to make Unity play nice with Git
- Start nailing down battle mechanics and overworld power-ups
  - Specifically, the possible "bugs" to use and how to design around them
- Main character designs and 2d "sprite" (probably cutout animation) for both overworld and battle
  - Can visualize the rest of the world around the main character for consistency

## Time Spent

2.5 + 2hr